community.md, before:

---
title: Community
sectionid: community
layout: page
---

# Join the Druid Community {.index}

### The Druid community is engaged, active, and growing. Your questions, suggestions, ideas, and conributions are welcome.

+-- {.text-part}

+-- {.text-item .indent}
## Join
Join the Druid Group: <https://groups.google.com/d/forum/druid-development>.  
We are also squatting in channel #druid-dev on [irc.freenode.net](irc.freenode.net).
=--

+-- {.text-item .indent}
## Contribute

Druid has a growing list open source projects and we’re delighted to work with
outside engineers on everything from fixes, new connectors, and core projects.
Of course, there are more ways to contribute than writing code, feature
suggestions, reporting bugs, [documentation](documentation.html) and usability
feedback all matter immensely. You can learn more about contributing by
visiting our wiki maintained on our [Github page](https://github.com/metamx/druid/wiki).
In case you’re curious, our contributor’s license agreement is embedded in our
submission process and must be accepted before your Github pull request can be
merged.
=--

=--

Commit message:

Language changes on the community page.

community.md, after:

---
published: true
title: Community
sectionid: community
layout: page
---

# Join the Druid Community {.index}

### The Druid community is engaged, active, and growing. Your questions, suggestions, ideas, and conributions are welcome.

+-- {.text-part}

+-- {.text-item .indent}
## Join
Join the Druid Group: <https://groups.google.com/d/forum/druid-development>.  
We are also squatting in channel #druid-dev on [irc.freenode.net](irc.freenode.net).
=--

+-- {.text-item .indent}
## Contribute

We intend for Druid to be a community-led project and we’re delighted to work with
outside engineers on everything from fixes, new connectors, and core projects.

Of course, there are more ways to contribute than writing code, feature
suggestions, reporting bugs, [documentation](documentation.html) and usability
feedback all matter immensely. You can learn more about contributing by
visiting our [Github wiki](https://github.com/metamx/druid/wiki).

For code contributions, we do require that a contributor's license agreement (CLA) is agreed to before we can accept the code.  Our CLA is fashioned after the Apache CLA and can be found in the base directory in the source code at https://github.com/metamx/druid
=--

=--
