---
title: Use Cases
layout: simple_page
sectionid: use-cases
---

## Streaming and Operational Data

Druid generally works well with any event-oriented, timeseries, or telemetry data, especially streaming datasets from Apache Kafka.
Druid provides exactly once consumption semantics from [Apache Kafka](/docs/latest/development/extensions-core/kafka-ingestion) and is commonly used as a sink for event-oriented Kafka topics.

Druid also works well for batch data sets.
Organizations have deployed Druid to accelerate queries and power applications where the input data are static files.
Druid is a great fit if you are developing a user-facing application and you want your users to be able to self service their own questions.

## Network flows

Druid is commonly used to collect and analyze network flows.
Druid is used to arbitrarily slice and dice flow data along any set of attributes.

Network flow queries often involve grouping or ranking dozens of dimensions to measure key metrics or diagnose issues.
Many traditional technologies are unable to provide interactive queries when the number of dimensions is high, or when the cardinality of the dimensions is high.
Druid’s innovative architecture is able to scale to handle interactive queries on complex data sets with hundreds of dimensions, and billions of unique values per dimension.

Network flow analytics often requires computing complex metrics to measure performance or identify issues.
For example, to compute [burstable billing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burstable_billing), you first need to group flows in 5 minute buckets.
Next, you need to find 95th percentile flow rate for each bucket.
Finally, you need to identify the top devices related to these flows.
Druid is built from the ground up to be able to calculate these complex measures with ease.

## User Activity and Behavior

Druid is often used for clickstreams, viewstreams, and activity streams.
Specific use cases include measuring user engagement, tracking A/B test data for product releases, and troubleshooting anomalies in usage patterns.

Druid can compute user metrics such as [distinct counts](/docs/latest/querying/aggregations) both exactly and approximately.
This mean measures such as daily active users can be computed in under a second approximately (with 97% avg. accuracy) to view general trends, or computed exactly to present to key stakeholders.
Furthermore, Druid can be used for [funnel analysis](/docs/latest/development/extensions-core/datasketches-aggregators), and to measure how many users took one action, but did not take another action.
Such analysis is useful is tracking user signups for a product.

Druid’s search and filter capabilities enable rapid, easy drill-downs of users along any set of demographics.
Measure and compare user activity by age, gender, location, and much more.

## Application Performance Management

Druid is often used to track the operational data generated by applications.
Similar to the user activity use case, this data can be about how users are interacting with an application or it can be the metrics emitted by the application itself.
Druid can be used to drill into how different components of an application are performing, identify bottlenecks, and troubleshoot issues.

Unlike many traditional solutions, there are no limits to the volume, complexity, and throughput of the data.
Rapidly analyze applications events with thousands of attributes, and compute complex metrics on load, performance, and usage.
For example, rank API endpoints based on 95th percentile query latency, and slice and dice how these metrics change based on any ad-hoc set of attributes such as time of day, user demographic, or datacenter location.

## IoT/Device Metrics

Druid can be used as a time series solution for server and device metrics.
Ingest machine generated data in real-time, and perform rapid ad-hoc analytics to measure performance, optimize hardware resources, or identify issues.

Unlike many traditional timeseries databases, Druid is an analytics engine at heart.
Druid combines ideas of timeseries databases, column-oriented analytic databases, and search systems.
Druid combines time-based partitioning, column-oriented storage, and search indexes in a single system.
This means time-based queries, numerical aggregations, and search and filter queries are extremely fast.

You can include millions of unique tag values with your metrics, and arbitrarily group and filter on any combination of tags.
You can group and rank on tags, and compute a variety of complex metrics.
Furthermore, you search and filter on tag values orders of magnitude faster than in traditional timeseries databases.

## Digital Marketing

Druid is commonly used to store and query online advertising data.
This data typically comes from ad servers and is critical to measure and understand advertising campaign performance, click through rates, conversion rates (attrition rates), and much more.

Druid was initially designed to power a user-facing analytics application for digital advertising data.
Druid has seen substantial production use for this type of data and the largest users in the world have petabytes of data stored on thousands of servers.

Druid can be used to compute impressions, clicks, eCPM, and key conversion metrics, filtered on publisher, campaign, user information, and dozens of other dimensions supporting full slice and dice capability.

## OLAP / Business Intelligence

Druid is commonly used for BI use cases.
Organizations have deployed Druid to accelerate queries and power applications.
Unlike SQL-on-Hadoop engines such as Presto or Hive, Druid is designed for high concurrency and sub-second queries, powering interactive data exploration through a UI.
In general this makes Druid a better fit for truly interactive visual analytics.

Druid is a great fit if you are developing a user-facing application and you want your users to be able to run their own self service drill down queries.
