docs/latest/development/extensions-core/kafka-eight-firehose.md, before:

---
layout: doc_page
title: "Kafka Eight Firehose"
---

<!--
  ~ Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  ~ or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  ~ distributed with this work for additional information
  ~ regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
  -->

# Kafka Eight Firehose

Make sure to [include](../../operations/including-extensions.html) `druid-kafka-eight` as an extension.

This firehose acts as a Kafka 0.8.x consumer and ingests data from Kafka.

Sample spec:

```json
"firehose": {
  "type": "kafka-0.8",
  "consumerProps": {
    "zookeeper.connect": "localhost:2181",
    "zookeeper.connection.timeout.ms" : "15000",
    "zookeeper.session.timeout.ms" : "15000",
    "zookeeper.sync.time.ms" : "5000",
    "group.id": "druid-example",
    "fetch.message.max.bytes" : "1048586",
    "auto.offset.reset": "largest",
    "auto.commit.enable": "false"
  },
  "feed": "wikipedia"
}
```

|property|description|required?|
|--------|-----------|---------|
|type|This should be "kafka-0.8"|yes|
|consumerProps|The full list of consumer configs can be [here](https://kafka.apache.org/08/configuration.html).|yes|
|feed|Kafka maintains feeds of messages in categories called topics. This is the topic name.|yes|

Commit message:

Add more Apache branding to docs

docs/latest/development/extensions-core/kafka-eight-firehose.md, after:

---
layout: doc_page
title: "Apache Kafka Eight Firehose"
---

<!--
  ~ Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  ~ or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  ~ distributed with this work for additional information
  ~ regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
  -->

# Kafka Eight Firehose

To use this Apache Druid (incubating) extension, make sure to [include](../../operations/including-extensions.html) `druid-kafka-eight` as an extension.

This firehose acts as a Kafka 0.8.x consumer and ingests data from Kafka.

Sample spec:

```json
"firehose": {
  "type": "kafka-0.8",
  "consumerProps": {
    "zookeeper.connect": "localhost:2181",
    "zookeeper.connection.timeout.ms" : "15000",
    "zookeeper.session.timeout.ms" : "15000",
    "zookeeper.sync.time.ms" : "5000",
    "group.id": "druid-example",
    "fetch.message.max.bytes" : "1048586",
    "auto.offset.reset": "largest",
    "auto.commit.enable": "false"
  },
  "feed": "wikipedia"
}
```

|property|description|required?|
|--------|-----------|---------|
|type|This should be "kafka-0.8"|yes|
|consumerProps|The full list of consumer configs can be [here](https://kafka.apache.org/08/configuration.html).|yes|
|feed|Kafka maintains feeds of messages in categories called topics. This is the topic name.|yes|
