docs/latest/development/extensions-core/postgresql.md, before:

---
layout: doc_page
title: "PostgreSQL Metadata Store"
---

<!--
  ~ Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  ~ or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  ~ distributed with this work for additional information
  ~ regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
  -->

# PostgreSQL Metadata Store

Make sure to [include](../../operations/including-extensions.html) `postgresql-metadata-storage` as an extension.

## Setting up PostgreSQL

1. Install PostgreSQL

  Use your favorite package manager to install PostgreSQL, e.g.:
  - on Ubuntu/Debian using apt `apt-get install postgresql`
  - on OS X, using [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) `brew install postgresql`

2. Create a druid database and user

  On the machine where PostgreSQL is installed, using an account with proper
  postgresql permissions:

  Create a druid user, enter `diurd` when prompted for the password.

  ```bash
  createuser druid -P
  ```

  Create a druid database owned by the user we just created

  ```bash
  createdb druid -O druid
  ```

  *Note:* On Ubuntu / Debian you may have to prefix the `createuser` and
  `createdb` commands with `sudo -u postgres` in order to gain proper
  permissions.

3. Configure your Druid metadata storage extension:

  Add the following parameters to your Druid configuration, replacing `<host>`
  with the location (host name and port) of the database.

  ```properties
  druid.extensions.loadList=["postgresql-metadata-storage"]
  druid.metadata.storage.type=postgresql
  druid.metadata.storage.connector.connectURI=jdbc:postgresql://<host>/druid
  druid.metadata.storage.connector.user=druid
  druid.metadata.storage.connector.password=diurd
  ```

## Configuration
In most cases, the configuration options map directly to the [postgres jdbc connection options](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/head/connect.html).

|Property|Description|Default|Required|
|--------|-----------|-------|--------|
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.useSSL` | Enables SSL | `false` | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslPassword` | The [Password Provider](../../operations/password-provider.html) or String password for the client's key. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslFactory` | The class name to use as the `SSLSocketFactory` | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslFactoryArg` | An optional argument passed to the sslFactory's constructor | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslMode` | The sslMode. Possible values are "disable", "require", "verify-ca", "verify-full", "allow" and "prefer"| none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslCert` | The full path to the certificate file. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslKey` | The full path to the key file. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslRootCert` | The full path to the root certificate. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslHostNameVerifier` | The classname of the hostname verifier. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslPasswordCallback` | The classname of the SSL password provider. | none | no |

Commit message:

Add more Apache branding to docs (#590)

docs/latest/development/extensions-core/postgresql.md, after:

---
layout: doc_page
title: "PostgreSQL Metadata Store"
---

<!--
  ~ Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  ~ or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  ~ distributed with this work for additional information
  ~ regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
  -->

# PostgreSQL Metadata Store

To use this Apache Druid (incubating) extension, make sure to [include](../../operations/including-extensions.html) `postgresql-metadata-storage` as an extension.

## Setting up PostgreSQL

1. Install PostgreSQL

  Use your favorite package manager to install PostgreSQL, e.g.:
  - on Ubuntu/Debian using apt `apt-get install postgresql`
  - on OS X, using [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) `brew install postgresql`

2. Create a druid database and user

  On the machine where PostgreSQL is installed, using an account with proper
  postgresql permissions:

  Create a druid user, enter `diurd` when prompted for the password.

  ```bash
  createuser druid -P
  ```

  Create a druid database owned by the user we just created

  ```bash
  createdb druid -O druid
  ```

  *Note:* On Ubuntu / Debian you may have to prefix the `createuser` and
  `createdb` commands with `sudo -u postgres` in order to gain proper
  permissions.

3. Configure your Druid metadata storage extension:

  Add the following parameters to your Druid configuration, replacing `<host>`
  with the location (host name and port) of the database.

  ```properties
  druid.extensions.loadList=["postgresql-metadata-storage"]
  druid.metadata.storage.type=postgresql
  druid.metadata.storage.connector.connectURI=jdbc:postgresql://<host>/druid
  druid.metadata.storage.connector.user=druid
  druid.metadata.storage.connector.password=diurd
  ```

## Configuration
In most cases, the configuration options map directly to the [postgres jdbc connection options](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/head/connect.html).

|Property|Description|Default|Required|
|--------|-----------|-------|--------|
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.useSSL` | Enables SSL | `false` | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslPassword` | The [Password Provider](../../operations/password-provider.html) or String password for the client's key. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslFactory` | The class name to use as the `SSLSocketFactory` | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslFactoryArg` | An optional argument passed to the sslFactory's constructor | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslMode` | The sslMode. Possible values are "disable", "require", "verify-ca", "verify-full", "allow" and "prefer"| none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslCert` | The full path to the certificate file. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslKey` | The full path to the key file. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslRootCert` | The full path to the root certificate. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslHostNameVerifier` | The classname of the hostname verifier. | none | no |
| `druid.metadata.postgres.ssl.sslPasswordCallback` | The classname of the SSL password provider. | none | no |
