---
title: Seeking New Committers
published: true
layout: post
author: Druid PMC
tags: "#druidio #analytics #olap #governance #opensource"
---

We are excited to announce that we have formalized the governance of Druid to
be a community led project! Druid has been informally community led for some
time, with committers from various organizations regularly adding new features,
improving performance, and making things easier to use. Project committers vote
on proposals, review/write pull requests, provide community support, and help
guide the technical direction of the project. You can find more information on
the project’s goals and governance on our recently updated [Druid webpage](
http://druid.io/community/). Druid depends upon its vibrant community of users
for their feedback with respect to features, documentation and very helpful bug
reports.

To ensure that best and unbiased interests of the project are always
represented, and help Druid grow, we would like to have an even bigger pool of
committers from diverse organizations. If you are a Druid user who is
passionate about druid and wants to get involved more, then please send your
pull requests to improve documentation, bug fixes, tests and proposed/accepted
features. Also, feel free to let us know about your interest by contacting
[existing committers](http://druid.io/community/) or post in the [development
list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/druid-development).

To get started developing on Druid, we’ve created and tagged a set of [beginner
friendly
issues](https://github.com/apache/incubator-druid/labels/Difficulty%20-%20Easy) on
Github. Please use the [development
list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/druid-development) to discuss the
best ways to get started on any particular issue. Of course, feel free to
create your own issues and submit proposals for anything you’d like to see in
Druid.

We look forward to adding new committers on Druid and working together to make
the project great!
