community/index.md, before:

---
title: Druid Community
sectionid: community
layout: simple_page
---

## Community

Most discussion about Druid happens over email, github, and IRC.

* **User Google Group** [druid-user@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/druid-user) for general discussion
* **Development Google Group** [druid-development@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/druid-development) for discussion about project development
* **Github** [druid-io/druid](https://github.com/druid-io/druid) issues and pull requests (watch to subscribe)
* **IRC** `#druid-dev` on irc.freenode.net

## Contributing

Druid is a community-led project and we are delighted to receive contributions
of anything from minor fixes to big new features.

### What to work on

If you have an itch to scratch, then by all means do that! Fixing bugs you run
into, or adding features you need, are both immensely helpful.

If you're looking for some starter projects, we maintain a [list of issues](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Difficulty+-+Easy%22) suitable
for new developers.

There are plenty of ways to help outside writing Druid code. Feature
suggestions, reporting bugs, [documentation](/docs/{{ site.druid_version }}/)
and usability feedback all matter immensely. Another big way to help is
through [client libraries](/docs/latest/development/libraries.html), which are
avaialble in a variety of languages. If you develop a new one, we'll be happy
to include it in the list.

### Getting your changes accepted

Patches to Druid are done through GitHub pull requests. Most pull requests
will be merged after two committers have reviewed it and given a +1. The one
exception is major architectural changes or API changes, which often warrant
additional review. For those, it can help to discuss things on the [druid-development
list](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/druid-development) beforehand.

In general please follow the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
when sending in pull requests. This will help review proceed as quickly as
possible.

For code contributions, we require that you agree to a Contributor License
Agreement (CLA) before we can accept your code. You can find our CLA on and
sign it directly on our [CLA page](/community/cla.html)

### Committers

Committers are collectively responsible for Druid's technical management. This involves
setting the direction of the project, contributing code, and reviewing code contributed
by others.

You don't need to be a committer to contribute- pull requests are welcome from anyone.

| Name                                                  | Organization           |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| [Bingkun Guo](https://github.com/guobingkun)          | Yahoo!                 |
| [Charles Allen](https://github.com/drcrallen)         | Metamarkets            |
| [David Lim](https://github.com/dclim)                 | Imply                  |
| [Eric Tschetter](https://github.com/cheddar)          | Yahoo!                 |
| [Fangjin Yang](https://github.com/fjy)                | Imply                  |
| [Gian Merlino](https://github.com/gianm)              | Imply                  |
| [Himanshu Gupta](https://github.com/himanshug)        | Yahoo!                 |
| [Jonathan Wei](https://github.com/jon-wei)            | Imply                  |
| [Lijin Bin](https://github.com/binlijin)              | Alibaba                |
| [Mohamed Slim Bouguerra](https://github.com/b-slim)   | Yahoo!                 |
| [Navis Ryu](https://github.com/navis)                 | SKTelecom              |
| [Nishant Bangarwa](https://github.com/nishantmonu51)  | Metamarkets            |
| [Parag Jain](https://github.com/pjain1)               | Yahoo                  |
| [Robin Sahner](https://github.com/rasahner)           | Yahoo                  |
| [Xavier Léauté](https://github.com/xvrl)              | Metamarkets            |

### Becoming a committer

If you'd like to become a committer, that's great! Please contact one of the
existing committers for a walk through the process. Basically, what we're
looking for is an interest in ongoing contributions to Druid.

### General committer guidelines
If you are an official Druid committer then congratulations! You are part of a fantastic group of people. Here are some guidelines to follow to help ensure the Druid project continues to grow and improve:

1. You can merge your own pull request if it fits the rest of the criteria. A common thing to see is "+1 after travis" from other committers.
1. A pull request should have two +1's who are not the author.
1. Travis-CI should pass or have some **very** good reason why it won't pass for a pull request.
1. You reasonably believe that all comments have been addressed.
1. Enough time has passed to give folks a reasonable chance to indicate a desire to comment on the pull request. AKA: don't merge a pull request that was submitted Friday evening until at least 1~2 regular work days have passed. (use good judgement here)
1. You are expected to be the champion for your own pull requests.
1. Being a champion on a pull request can be a significant undertaking depending on the size of the code change and what parts of the code it touches. It may require communicating with other developers, reconciling differences, organizing community feedback, and/or following up with people who have commented in a pull request to ensure comments have been addressed.
1. Sometimes code is presented as a work-in-progress or as a point of discussion. Use the `Discuss` tag on a pull request in such a case.
1. If a pull request you are championing is taking longer than expected to merge, be sure to raise the issue in the developer sync.
1. Limit the number of pull requests you are championing at the same time.
1. Prioritize code reviews to look at pull requests that are blockers for the next release (see the Milestone marker on the pull request)
1. Help serve as champion for pull requests that originate from new committers.
1. If you feel a pull request is required for the next release, mark it as such in the Milestone of the pull request.
1. Do not comment on a pull request unless you are willing to follow up on the edits.
1. Give priority to getting older pull requests merged. (Either as their champion or as an active commenter)
1. And most importantly.. the PMC desires to ensure a positive and effective developer experience! If you find that things are not functioning to your expectations, pleaes raise the issue.

Remember, we all want to see this project thrive!

## Governance

The PMC (Project Management Committee) is responsible for the administrative
aspects of the Druid project. The responsibilities of the PMC include:

- Approving releases
- Nominating new committers
- Maintaining the project's shared resources, including the github account,
  mailing lists, websites, social media channels, etc.
- Maintaining guidelines for the project

Commit message:

Update contributing guidelines
* Clarify expected behavior on unit test PRs and documentation PRs.

community/index.md, after:

---
title: Druid Community
sectionid: community
layout: simple_page
---

## Community

Most discussion about Druid happens over email, github, and IRC.

* **User Google Group** [druid-user@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/druid-user) for general discussion
* **Development Google Group** [druid-development@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/druid-development) for discussion about project development
* **Github** [druid-io/druid](https://github.com/druid-io/druid) issues and pull requests (watch to subscribe)
* **IRC** `#druid-dev` on irc.freenode.net

## Contributing

Druid is a community-led project and we are delighted to receive contributions
of anything from minor fixes to big new features.

### What to work on

If you have an itch to scratch, then by all means do that! Fixing bugs you run
into, or adding features you need, are both immensely helpful.

If you're looking for some starter projects, we maintain a [list of issues](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Difficulty+-+Easy%22) suitable
for new developers.

There are plenty of ways to help outside writing Druid code. Feature
suggestions, reporting bugs, [documentation](/docs/{{ site.druid_version }}/)
and usability feedback all matter immensely. Another big way to help is
through [client libraries](/docs/latest/development/libraries.html), which are
avaialble in a variety of languages. If you develop a new one, we'll be happy
to include it in the list.

### Getting your changes accepted

Patches to Druid are done through GitHub pull requests. Most documentation or unit-test-only pull requests require a single +1 from an established committer. Most code pull requests will be merged after two committers have reviewed it and given a +1. The
exception is major architectural changes or API changes, which often warrant
additional review. For those, it can help to discuss things on the [druid-development
list](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/druid-development) or a github issue beforehand.

In general please follow the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
when sending in pull requests. This will help review proceed as quickly as
possible.

For code contributions, we require that you agree to a Contributor License
Agreement (CLA) before we can accept your code. You can find our CLA on and
sign it directly on our [CLA page](/community/cla.html)

### Committers

Committers are collectively responsible for Druid's technical management. This involves
setting the direction of the project, contributing code, and reviewing code contributed
by others.

You don't need to be a committer to contribute- pull requests are welcome from anyone.

| Name                                                  | Organization           |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| [Bingkun Guo](https://github.com/guobingkun)          | Yahoo!                 |
| [Charles Allen](https://github.com/drcrallen)         | Metamarkets            |
| [David Lim](https://github.com/dclim)                 | Imply                  |
| [Eric Tschetter](https://github.com/cheddar)          | Yahoo!                 |
| [Fangjin Yang](https://github.com/fjy)                | Imply                  |
| [Gian Merlino](https://github.com/gianm)              | Imply                  |
| [Himanshu Gupta](https://github.com/himanshug)        | Yahoo!                 |
| [Jonathan Wei](https://github.com/jon-wei)            | Imply                  |
| [Lijin Bin](https://github.com/binlijin)              | Alibaba                |
| [Mohamed Slim Bouguerra](https://github.com/b-slim)   | Yahoo!                 |
| [Navis Ryu](https://github.com/navis)                 | SKTelecom              |
| [Nishant Bangarwa](https://github.com/nishantmonu51)  | Metamarkets            |
| [Parag Jain](https://github.com/pjain1)               | Yahoo                  |
| [Robin Sahner](https://github.com/rasahner)           | Yahoo                  |
| [Xavier Léauté](https://github.com/xvrl)              | Metamarkets            |

### Becoming a committer

If you'd like to become a committer, that's great! Please contact one of the
existing committers for a walk through the process. Basically, what we're
looking for is an interest in ongoing contributions to Druid.

### General committer guidelines
If you are an official Druid committer then congratulations! You are part of a fantastic group of people. Here are some guidelines to follow to help ensure the Druid project continues to grow and improve:

1. You can merge your own pull request if it fits the rest of the criteria. A common thing to see is "+1 after travis" from other committers.
1. A pull request should have two +1's who are not the author.
1. Travis-CI should pass or have some **very** good reason why it won't pass for a pull request.
1. You reasonably believe that all comments have been addressed.
1. Enough time has passed to give folks a reasonable chance to indicate a desire to comment on the pull request. AKA: don't merge a pull request that was submitted Friday evening until at least 1~2 regular work days have passed. (use good judgement here)
1. You are expected to be the champion for your own pull requests.
1. Being a champion on a pull request can be a significant undertaking depending on the size of the code change and what parts of the code it touches. It may require communicating with other developers, reconciling differences, organizing community feedback, and/or following up with people who have commented in a pull request to ensure comments have been addressed.
1. Sometimes code is presented as a work-in-progress or as a point of discussion. Use the `Discuss` tag on a pull request in such a case.
1. If a pull request you are championing is taking longer than expected to merge, be sure to raise the issue in the developer sync.
1. Limit the number of pull requests you are championing at the same time.
1. Prioritize code reviews to look at pull requests that are blockers for the next release (see the Milestone marker on the pull request)
1. Help serve as champion for pull requests that originate from new committers.
1. If you feel a pull request is required for the next release, mark it as such in the Milestone of the pull request.
1. Do not comment on a pull request unless you are willing to follow up on the edits.
1. Give priority to getting older pull requests merged. (Either as their champion or as an active commenter)
1. And most importantly.. the PMC desires to ensure a positive and effective developer experience! If you find that things are not functioning to your expectations, pleaes raise the issue.

Remember, we all want to see this project thrive!

## Governance

The PMC (Project Management Committee) is responsible for the administrative
aspects of the Druid project. The responsibilities of the PMC include:

- Approving releases
- Nominating new committers
- Maintaining the project's shared resources, including the github account,
  mailing lists, websites, social media channels, etc.
- Maintaining guidelines for the project
